# Code of Conduct

## 1. Purpose

The Perl Foundation believes our community should be truly open for everyone.
As such, we are committed to providing a friendly, safe and welcoming
environment for all, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, disability,
ethnicity, religion, preferred operating system, programming language, or text
editor.

This code of conduct outlines our expectations for participant behavior. We
invite all sponsors, volunteers, speakers, attendees, vendors, and other
participants to help us realize a safe and positive conference experience for
everyone.

## 2. Scope

We expect all conference participants (sponsors, volunteers, speakers,
attendees, vendors, and other guests) to abide by this code of conduct at all
conference venues and conference-organized social events.

## 3. Expected Behavior

  * Be considerate, respectful, and collaborative.
  * Refrain from demeaning, discriminatory or harassing behavior and speech.
  * Be mindful of your surroundings and of your fellow participants.
  * Alert conference organizers if you notice a dangerous situation or someone in distress.

## 4. Unacceptable Behavior

Unacceptable behaviors include: intimidating, harassing, abusive,
discriminatory, derogatory or demeaning conduct by any attendees. All YAPC::NA
venues may be shared with members of the public; please be respectful to all
patrons of these locations.

Harassment includes: offensive verbal comments related to gender, sexual
orientation, race, religion, disability; inappropriate use of nudity and/or
sexual images (including presentation slides); deliberate intimidation,
stalking or following; harassing photography or recording; sustained
disruption of talks or other events; inappropriate physical contact, and
unwelcome sexual attention.

## 5. Consequences of Unacceptable Behavior

Unacceptable behavior by other attendees, organizers, venue staff, sponsors,
or other patrons of YAPC::NA venues will not be tolerated.

Anyone asked to stop unacceptable behavior is expected to comply immediately.

If anyone engages in unacceptable behavior, the conference organizers may take
any action they deem appropriate including expulsion from the conference
without warning or refund.

## 6. What to do if you witness or are subject to unacceptable behavior

If you are subject to unacceptable behavior, notice that someone else is being
subject to unacceptable behavior, or have any other concerns, please notify
[coc@yapcna.org](mailto:coc@yapcna.org) if possible or if impractical, Will
Braswell as soon as possible.

## Contact Information:



    YAPC::NA Director
    +1 512-655-9272
    [coc@yapcna.org](mailto:coc@yapcna.org)


